Homemade Ghee courtesy http://www.rachnas-kitchen.com/how-to-make-ghee/

INGREDIENTS
------------
Milk cream - 1 kg
Ice cold water - 3 tablespoon or as required

INSTRUCTIONS
------------
1) Collecting cream
2) Add 2 tablespoon of yogurt in a large utensil and keep collecting cream over 8 to 10 days from boiled and cooled milk. Keep the utensil in refrigerator else it will get spoiled.
3) Churning- Making butter (makhan)
4) To churn I used traditional mathani (wooden whisk) but you can use food processor to churn it. Put mathani in cream utensil and start rolling in between your palm.
5) Whisk for 2 - 3 minutes. Add 2-3 tablespoon ice-cold water and keep on churning. Use more waterif required. Cold water helps to separate butterfat from buttermilk.
6) After 8 to 10 minutes of churning you will notice that butter globules are separating from the fluid part. Keep on churning and all butter globules starts floating on the top layer. The fluid part is butter milk.
7) You can see the granular butter globules.
8) Separate it from butter milk and collect it in another utensil.
9) Press butter with your fingers to expell buttermilk. It will release butter milk. Do it for around 5-7 minutes.
10) Now butter globules and butter milk is separated. You can use this butter milk in preparing different recipes. The buttermilk can be used to make bread or as a thirst-quenching drink.
11) Preparing ghee
12) Put the butterglobules utensil on low heat. Let the butter melt. High heat will burn the Makhan resulting in bitter taste.
13) As butter (makhan) is melting down, foam will starts to form. Stir in to mix foam into butter. Simmer it on low heat.
14) After 20 minutes of slow cooking foam will settle down and all moisture will evaporate. You will see that ghee has becomes golden and milk granules sink at bottom. Increase heat to medium and boil ghee for 3-4 minutes. Ghee will change colour to golden brown and milk granules will turn dark brown.
15) Let the ghee cool for 10 minutes. Filter ghee in a fresh and dried container using muslin cloth. Ghee is ready to use.
16) You can use this ghee up to 8 to 10 months.
17) After cooling down ghee solidifies.
18) Enjoy!
