Palak Paneer courtesy http://www.rachnas-kitchen.com/palak-paneer-recipe/

INGREDIENTS
------------
For spinach puree
200 grams fresh baby spinach
1 green chili
½ teaspoon fennel seeds
2 cups of water for boiling spinach
A few ice cubes
For gravy
200 grams paneer
2 tbsp oil
1 medium-sized onion, finely chopped
1 teaspoon ginger paste
½ tsp cumin seeds / jeera
A pinch of asafoetida/heeng
½ tsp chopped garlic
¼ tsp garam masala powder
½ tsp ground coriander
1 bay leaf / tej patta
¼ tsp turmeric powder
½ tsp red chili crushed or powder
4 tsp milk
salt as required
1 ½ tsp kasuri methi leaves (dry fenugreek leaves)

INSTRUCTIONS
------------
1) Heat a sauce pan and water.
2) When water starts boiling, add fennel seeds and spinach leaves.
3) Let it boil for 3 minutes on high. Mean while line up a pot with ice water. Switch off the flame. Immediately transfer the spinach to ice water.
4) Let it sit for 10 minutes and then drain.
5) This is called blanching the spinach.
6) This way you will get rich green colour without any brown tint.
7) You can save the water in which you boiled your spinach for later use.
8) In a mixer jar, add the blanched spinach and green chili.
9) Puree it. Keep it aside.
10) Place a pan over medium heat.
11) Pour olive oil.
12) Once oil get's heat up,add asafoetida,cumin seeds and bay leaf.
13) Saute for 30 seconds.
14) Add chopped garlic and saute till raw aroma goes.
15) Add in chopped onion, saute for a minute.
16) Add ginger paste and stir for 30 seconds.
17) Add dry spices garam masala, coriander masala, turmeric powder and crushed chilli.
18) Roast for 10 seconds. Make sure that you don't get spices burned. Add whole milk. Saute the mixture until comes into a paste texture.
19) It should also have started to lose oil at sides.
20) Add spinach chili puree which we have prepared earlier. Add salt to taste.
21) Cook for 5 minutes. Add lemon juice.
22) This will keep green colour of spinach intact and also flavours palak paneer.
23) Add paneer cubes and mix. Switch off the flame.
24) Add crushed kasoori methi. Delicious palak paneer is ready to serve withchapatior rice.
